The Project Gutenberg eBook of Fifty-fifty with Bonnie
    
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Fifty-fifty with Bonnie

Author: W. C. Tuttle


        
Release date: May 7, 2026 [eBook #78627]

Language: English

Original publication: New York, NY: The Ridgway Company, 1917

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/78627

Credits: Prepared by volunteers at BookCove (bookcove.net)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FIFTY-FIFTY WITH BONNIE ***

                        FIFTY-FIFTY WITH BONNIE

                            By W. C. Tuttle

  Author of “A Bull Movement in Yellow Horse,” “Fate and a Fool,” etc.


“My Bonnie-e-e lies over th’ ocean. My Bonnie-e-e lies over th’ sea.
My Bonnie-e-e lies o-ver th’----” wailed Chuck Warner in a minor
key, turning his long nose toward the blue sky, and keeping a silent
accompaniment to his vocal gyrations by wiggling his ears.

“Here,” interrupted the postmaster of Curlew, handing Chuck a letter.
“When yuh gits over feelin’ so bad yuh might put this in yore pocket
and hand it to Johnny Myers as yuh rides past th’ Triangle ranch.”

Chuck reached for the letter, stuffed it into his vest pocket and
resumed his lamentations to some one to “Bring ba-a-ack, bring ba-a-ack,
o-o-oh, bring back my Bonnie-e-e to me-e-e-e.”

Chuck had the longest face and the shortest legs west of Bismarck.
His claims to notoriety consisted of complete control of his ear
muscles, an ability to ride anything that ever wore hair, the memory
of a snowshoe rabbit and the conscience of a Flathead half-breed.
Chuck drew an intermittent salary from Hank Padden, owner of the
Seven-A cattle outfit. When he wasn’t engaged in drawing a salary
from Hank, he was spending what he had already drawn, on wine and
song. Women were a minus quantity with Chuck; that is, women who
figure with wine and song. His favorite song--sober or not--has been
mentioned at the beginning of this tale.

Hank Padden was the owner of the Seven-A and a grouch against women. It
was rumored that at one time Hank had been jilted by a Piegan squaw, and
if that isn’t the height of humiliation there ain’t no such animile.

Also Hank harbored the worst misfit bunch of cow-punchers that ever
jingled a spur. Outside of Chuck, he had Weinie Lopp, Zeb Crandall,
Hen Peck--christened Gilliland--Mort Blackwell and Swede Johnson.

Leaving Chuck out of the group your eye naturally gravitates toward
Swede Johnson. Swede is six feet five in his boots, with a head the
shape and size of a croquet ball, and his boots admit twelve sizes.
His hat is a 6½ and he draws it up a little with a snakeskin band.
Swede was not a hero and did not look like a viking.

This narrative starts with Chuck and Weinie Lopp sitting on the depot
steps at Curlew, cussing the train ’cause it wasn’t on time.

“If I hadn’t promised th’ ol’ man before he left that I’d see that this
freight got hauled up to th’ ranch right away, I’d go some place where
it’s cool and--dog-gone, I shore don’t admire to ride in uh lumber wagon
a-tall. That ranch is goin’ to th’ dogs.”

“Uh-huh,” agreed Weinie. “I’m gittin’ tired of th’ Seven-A myself.”

“Aw, th’ ranch is all right,” defended Chuck. “It’s th’ danged
lonesomeness that gits under my hide. It shore needs wakin’ or it
will pass out from dry rot. Here th’ ol’ man goes gallivantin’ over
to Helena and leaves Swede in charge of th’ ranch. Swede! Every time
he takes off his hat I wants to play uh combination shot. He shore
does carry th’ first cousin to uh pool ball on top of his neck. Here
comes th’ train.”

The train pulled in and off hopped two women. As a team they didn’t
match up at all. One of them was short and fat and the other favored
a lodge-pole. Not tall and willowy but tall and stiff. They were both
wearing tan outing suits, straw hats and glasses, with enough black
cord fastened thereto to hang a horse thief.

They scanned the horizon and then engaged the agent in conversation for
a minute. He listened and then pointed over at Chuck and Weinie. The two
women walked over and made a minute inspection of the two punchers.

“Have you a conveyance?” asked the tall one.

Chuck looked at Weinie and then back at the women.

“We’re both uh li’l hard uh hearin’ ma’am. What yuh say?”

“I awsked you if you had a conveyance.”

“She awsk--” began Weinie. “Oh, shore. You means uh way to git there
without wearin’ out yore shoes.”

“Certainly!” she snapped. “The manager must have told you.”

“The manager?” wonders Chuck, aloud.

“Oh, yes--shore--huh--yes’m.”

“How far is it?” asked the fat one.

“Nobody knows,” replied Chuck confidentially. “Th’ ol’ timers says that
it ain’t----”

“Your conveyance is near at hand?” interrupts the tall one.

“I’d tell uh man,” replied Weinie, “it’s right behind th’ station. You
show ’em, Chuck, while I asks about that freight.”

The freight had not arrived, and as Weinie comes out of the depot doors
he meets Chuck coming in.

“Did yuh show ’em th’ con-vey-ance?” laughed Weinie.

Chuck grinned back and yelled at the agent--“Does all these trunks
belong to them females?”

“What do you care?” asked Weinie.

“They wants to take ’em along. Dog-gone, I reckon we’ll have uh load
after all.”

“Jist about what’s th’ idea, Chuck. Who’s goin’ to take ’em along and
where?”

“Search me, Weinie. I shows ’em th’ conveyance and they eases themselves
into it and yells for th’ trunks.”

“Didn’t they say where they’re a-goin’?”

“Not a say. They awsked me if there were any cowboys on th’ farm, and
also if th’ Injuns ever got hostile. I tells ’em that I never seen uh
cowboy and that all Injuns is hostile. What do yuh reckon we’ve
corraled, Weinie?”

Weinie rolled a smoke and leaned thoughtfully against the depot wall.
He snapped the half-smoked cigarette out over the tracks and shook his
head.

“I don’t know, Chuck. When uh female attaches herself to yuh thataway
it ain’t good manners to question her motives. Jist lay fer uh chance
and pass her on. Let’s take ’em out and sic ’em on Swede. Th’ Seven-A
needs uh woman’s ministerin’ hand, Chuck. Six trunks! By cripes, this
ain’t no fleetin’ visit they’re makin’. It’s uh good thing we didn’t
come hossback.”

“My man,” interrupted a harsh voice, and the tall woman stood at the
corner of the building, with hands on her hips and an outlaw gleam in
her eye. “Load those trunks!”

“Yes’m,” replied Chuck, removing his hat. “We’ll jist----”

“Don’t wiggle your ears that way!” she snaps. “One would think that you
belonged to the lower order of animals.”

“Not only one, ma’am,” agreed Weinie. “You and me both. I allus figure
that uh human bein’ what can wiggle his ears thataway is----”

“Aw ----!” snaps Chuck. “Git hold of that trunk!”

“Your language,” remarked the woman, “is also ----”

But Chuck had a trunk on his back and was waddling around the corner,
and she shut her lips and followed.

                   *       *       *       *       *

“That’s her,” stated Weinie, pointing with his whip at the ranch
buildings of the Seven-A. The main building had originally been a
one-story, square structure, but additional rooms had been added until
it resembled a Maltese cross. Unpainted and weather-worn but with a
wide veranda running around the front, it was at least habitable.
Further down the slope stood the bunk-house and off to the east was
the long rambling stable and corrals.

“Rawther primitive,” remarked the fleshy member. “I suppose that
preparations have been made for our arrival.”

“Yes, indeed,” added the tall one. “That was all understood in case I
wrote accepting terms. My letter must have reached here a week ago.”

Chuck and Weinie exchanged glances and drove the team up to the front of
the house.

Swede Johnson heard the wagon roll up and he came out on the porch in
his stocking feet and without his shirt on. He saw the women and stood
there like an owl blinking in the sun.

“That’s the boss,” whispered Chuck to the women. “He’s very fond uh
women and mighty good-hearted, but he’s hard uh hearin’. Yuh got to
speak loud to him, ma’am.”

“Good afternoon!” yells th’ tall one in uh voice that would carry plumb
to th’ forks of Roarin’ Creek.

Chuck walked over to Swede and whispers out of the side of his mouth:

“Ladies to see yuh, Swede. They’re hard uh hearin’.”

“Ladies ----!” grunts Swede, and then at th’ top of his voice he yells:
“Howdy! Git down and rest your feet!”

The women climbed down and walked up to the porch.

“You received my letter?” yelps the tall one in Swede’s ear, and he
looks as blank as an alkali flat.

“Louder,” whispers Weinie.

“I asked,” she whoops again, “if you got my letter!”

“What letter?” whoops Swede, leaning closer and getting red in the face.

“My letter!” screams the lady so hard that her glasses fall off.

“O-o-o-o-oh!” shrills Swede in a crescendo. “You git uh letter? Who
from?”

“Fool!” she snaps, puffing like she’d run a mile.

“Yes’m,” agreed Swede at the top of his voice. “He must ’a’ been.” And
then he went in the house and shut the door.

“Well,” remarked the fat one, “this isn’t exactly the kind of a
reception I was expecting, but we’ll look the place over and if it is
suitable I suppose we can put up with a few inconveniences, Clarissa.”

“Few inconveniences? Why, bless my soul, Genevieve, I hardly know what
to expect now. I can scarcely believe that this person ever wrote those
letters. He’s uncouth and----”

“Don’t try to express it, ma’am,” grinned Chuck. “Better men than you
have exhausted their supply of profanity in tryin’ to describe our
boss. It can’t be did. Me and Weinie will take yore trunks into th’
house and you can make yoreself right to home. If yuh wants anything
jist call th’ cook. His name is Beans. Full title is Lee Fung Yok.
He’s imported stock.”

All this time Zeb Crandall, Hen Peck and Mort Blackwell are sitting on
the corral fence, gawping like a bunch of hungry magpies.

“Jist about what’s th’ main idea, Chuck?” yelps Mort, and Chuck and
Weinie come down from the house, chuckling to themselves.

“That,” replied Chuck seriously, “is ol’ man Padden’s intended and his
imported chaperon. Th’ human lodge-pole is th’ bride to be. Did yuh hear
’em yellin’? They’re hard uh hearin’.”

“Chuck,” remarked Hen in a reproving voice, “yo’re handlin’ th’ truth
like uh shepherd.”

“When Chuck gits to lyin’ he’s uh world-beater,” agreed Zeb. “Jist about
what is th’ real truth of the matter, Weinie?”

“Chuck said it all, boys,” laughed Weinie.

“Yuh see it’s this way,” explained Chuck. “Th’ ol’ man, so far as I can
find out, has been correspondin’ with this female, and when he finds out
that she’s comin’ out here he loses his nerve and ducks.”

“Th’ ol’ pack-rat!” exclaimed Hen Peck. “Makin’ us believe all th’ time
that he’s uh woman hater, and gittin’ engaged by mail. Dog-gone!”

“Haw! Haw! Haw!” roared Mort. “Ain’t he th’ li’l ol’ devil though?
Let’s all go up and look her over. I’d shore admire to see what he’s
selected.”

“You fellers can,” remarked Chuck. “I shore got a eyeful. We’ll put th’
team up. Say, Hen--oh, Hennery, don’t flirt with th’ ladies!”

                   *       *       *       *       *

The delegation of three ambles up to the house and clatters up the
steps. The ladies are there arguing with Swede, and everybody is talking
at the top of their voices.

“You must have some one clean out those front rooms!” yelps the tall
one. “Miss Elberfield and I must have those rooms.”

“Haw-w-w!” roars Swede. “I can’t do it. Them’s th’ ol’ man’s rooms.
_Sabe_?”

“He told us we could have the best in the house,” howls the tall one
right back at him, shaking her finger in his face.

Swede gets as red as a beet in the face and hitches up his belt.

“Well,” he yells, “I don’t give uh ----! Take ’em! I’ll have Beans swamp
’em up a li’l.”

“Do you employ all of these men?” asked the fleshy one, pointing to the
delegation on the steps.

“Yah!” yelled Swede. “Them’s Zeb and Hen and Mort. Jist plain punchers.”

“Pleased to meet yuh, ladies,” sez Mort, taking off his hat and speaking
in an ordinary tone.

“Yell it!” exclaimed Swede in a whisper to Mort. “They’re deef.”

“Glad to meet yuh!” Mort tore a six-foot hole in the atmosphere with his
voice.

“Delighted!” howls the fat one. “I am Miss Genevieve Elberfield and this
is Miss Clarissa Vanderberg.”

“Nice day!” whoops Hen, shaking hands with both of them. “How’s yore
folks?”

Miss Elberfield leaned against the side of the porch and watched the
three walk back to the bunk-house.

“Clarissa, there are some real red-blooded men--real ones.”

“Yes, my dear, but it’s too bad they are so hard of hearing.”

“What I don’t see,” remarked Hen, as they stopped at the bunk-house, “is
what th’ ol’ man can see about Clarissa.”

“Well,” drawled Zeb, “after considerin’ everything about th’ Seven-A
from th’ mongrel dog to th’ hired hands, I’d say that Hank Padden is
jist about runnin’ true to form.”

The next morning Chuck meets Swede on the porch.

“Chuck, I ain’t noways clear on this subject,” announced Swede,
jerking his thumb over his shoulder in the direction of the main
part of the house. “Where in ---- did these females come from, and
what are they doin’ here? I’ve worked my danged fingers off fer them
already, and Beans swears that he’ll quit tonight if they don’t keep
out of th’ kitchen. They makes me dump all th’ ol’ man’s stuff into
th’ back room. By cripes, when he comes back there’ll be ---- raised
around this ranch, Chuck. He can’t blame----”

“Good morning!” the tall one had slipped out of the door and yelled
right in Swede’s ear, and he ducked like some one was shooting at his
right ear. “Have you mounts enough for twelve?”

“Hey!” yells Swede. “What you say?”

“Have you horses enough for twelve?” she yells again.

“What yuh goin’ to do--git up uh posse?” howled Swede.

“Don’t be sarcastic,” she snaps like the crack of a .45-70. “I’ll have
to be sure of these small details, as I’m sending for the girls today.”

“Sending fer th’-- Say, what girls yuh talkin’ about?”

“Goodness gracious, didn’t you read my letter?” she yelled.

“Ma’am--” Swede strained his voice until his neck looked like a piece
of rawhide rope, and his little blue eyes snapped-- “I never reads
anybody’s mail except my own!”

Miss Clarissa stares at Swede and then at Chuck, who is choking to death
from unnatural causes, grunts wonderingly and goes back into the house.

“I finds, Chuck, that th’ only way to handle uh woman is to show her
that she can’t run over yuh,” observed Swede.

“Uh-huh,” agreed Chuck, wiping the tears off his cheeks. “When it comes
to yellin’, Swede, you shore got anything beat I ever hears. If I didn’t
know for shore that yore name was Johnson, I’d bet six to one that yore
ancestors were war-whoops.”

“And still I don’t know why they’re hivin’ up here,” wailed Swede.

“Pshaw! I thought you knowed, Swede. Lissen--them fe-males are rich.
They been writin’ to th’ ol’ man about buyin’ th’ ranch, _sabe_? They
wants to acquire th’ Seven-A, lock, stock and barrel. Ain’t they said
nothin’ to you about it? No? Huh, that’s shore queer. They hints to
me that they likes your style and will probably want to keep yuh as
sort of uh general manager in case they takes th’ place. They asks me
how much yo’re worth per month and I said you was worth uh hundred at
least. They says, ‘That’s very reasonable.’”

“Cripes! Is that uh fact, Chuck? I reckon I’ll have to treat ’em as nice
as possible. Who do yuh reckon them twelve girls are?”

“Didn’t they tell yuh about them? Why them two females have been
runnin’ uh matrimonial bureau fer years--in fact that’s where they
makes all their money. Accordin’ to their contracts they has to find
husbands fer all th’ girls on their books. They had twelve left over
when they decides to quit th’ business and settle down, so they’re
goin’ to do th’ square thing by bringin’ ’em out here and gittin’
husbands fer ’em right here in li’l ol’ Montana. _Sabe_?”

“Cripes!” yelled Swede at the top of his voice. “Mebby we’ll all git uh
gal from that herd, eh, Chuck?”

“Yuh don’t have to yell at me thataway. Also you’ll git uh girl--not.
Th’ fat one intimates to me that she likes you uh heap, and, believe
me, if uh she-person with her capabilities makes up her mind to do uh
thing like that she’ll shore annex th’ cognomen of Johnson mighty
sudden.”

“Me? Not me, Chuck! You intimate to her that I’m uh widower with six
kids. Cripes! I won’t marry her--not a-tall!”

“Well, yuh don’t have to announce it to th’ next county, Swede. Weinie
and me had uh hard time tryin’ to keep her from kidnapin’ them two
papooses of Potlatch Annie’s as we came up here. She likes kids.”

Swede hooked his thumbs over the waistband of his trousers and scowled
at the horizon.

“What’ll I do, Chuck?”

Chuck leaned against a post and contemplated the situation for a while
and then slapped Swede on the shoulder.

“Tell her yo’re married already.”

“Huh! Where’ll I tell her my wife is?”

Chuck snapped his cigaret over the railing and yawned as he replied:

“Dog-gone it, Swede, do you expect me to lie about it? I ain’t afraid
to tell uh li’l untruth once in uh while, but you shore got to fix yore
wife’s place of residence. Here comes th’ females.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Swede ducked around the corner and ambled for the bunk-house, but Chuck,
after one look, leaned against the porch and studied the hand-stamping
on his leather cuffs.

“Where is the manager?” asked Miss Clarissa.

“Oh, I reckon he’s gone down to see his wife,” replied Chuck. “Said he
was goin’ down that way this mornin’.”

“His wife!” exclaimed Miss Genevieve. “Why don’t he keep her here at the
farm? I can see where a woman’s hand could work wonders here.”

“Not hers, ma’am,” gravely stated Chuck. “You see, she’s uh squaw. He
married Potlatch Annie uh few years ago, and they’ve got some kids.
Th’ bunch around here won’t stand fer no Injuns hangin’ around, so he
has to keep her down on Roarin’ Creek in uh tepee.”

“Heavens!” exclaimed Miss Clarissa. “How perfectly unfair! This man
evidently loves this Indian maiden, and just because of race prejudice
he is forced to live apart from her. We must investigate it, my dear
Genevieve.”

“Yes, indeed! Would it be feasible, Mr. Warner, for us to arrange to
have her brought up here where she rightfully belongs?”

“Well,” replied Chuck slowly, “I don’t reckon it would. You see, while
I mixes my sympathy with yours fer th’ pore klooch, I can’t see where
we has any chance to change things. Chief Runnin’ Wolf is uh close
relative of hers, and he hates th’ whites a plenty. He’d jist about go
on th’ grouch trail and lift some hair if we brought Annie up to live
here with--No, I’d let well enough alone.”

Well, things go along like this for a week. Poor old Swede is getting
thinner, and Beans won’t talk to any one at all. The boys, with the
exception of Mort Blackwell, hang around the house and yell so much
that when they go to bed they are unable to talk above a whisper. One
morning Hen drops into the kitchen and walks up behind Beans, who is
peeling potatoes. He says to Beans:

“Beans, can I have some---- Git away with that knife, you Celestial
devil! What do yuh think yo’re doin’?”

“Whasamalla you?” howled Beans, throwing the knife on the floor. “You
sneak in easy allesame woman. Woman no good, Hen. Alle time say, ‘Beans,
you washee face. Beans, you washee shirt’. Alle time wantum sclub flo’.
Mebby so I’m chasum li’l fly! Ol’ man Padden come pretty soon, I quit.
Alle time scare--no good.”

“Th’ ol’ man’s comin’ home tomorrow,” stated Swede, in the bunk-house,
after Weinie had been down after the mail. “He wants somebody to
come--Chuck, yuh bantie-legged maverick, shut up!”

“Come ba-a-ack, come ba-a-a-ack--” mimicked Swede. “When you gits to
singin’, Chuck, you shore are uh specimen.”

“Well, Swede, before yuh imitates uh singer you better learn th’ words
to th’ song. It ain’t ‘come back’ it’s ‘bring back.’ That is shore one
grand li’l song. I’ll bet thet I can sing----”

“Chuck, th’ ol’ man wants one of us to meet him at th’ station with uh
saddle-hoss. You want to go?”

“Naw, let Zeb go. He ain’t done nothin’ but lay around all week.”

“Zeb and Hen are out breakin’ that sorrel team,” informed Weinie.

“I seen ’em drive off down th’ road uh while ago, and that team went
away like they’d been broke all their lives. There’s th’ wagon comin’
right now.”

They stepped out of the door and the team was just pulling up to the
house. There is a big black bundle in the back of the wagon, and Zeb
is having a hard time trying to get the team up to the porch. Just
then Miss Elberfield and Miss Vanderberg come out of the house and
trot down the steps.

“Did you succeed?” yells Miss Vanderberg.

“Yes’m,” replied Zeb. “I’d sort-a remark that we did--mostly. One uh
them kids hides out in th’ bunch grass and we leaves him. Th’ rest are
here.”

Zeb untied the rope, pulled the blanket off and up stands Potlatch
Annie. She grabs the back of the seat and steadies herself long enough
to reach down and pick up a papoose, which wails loud and free.

“What th’ ---- yuh got there?” yells Swede.

“Your wife!” shouts Miss Elberfield. “Won’t you make her welcome?”

“My Gawd!” croaks Swede. “My wife? That’s ol’ Runnin’ Wolf’s klooch!
Where--what yuh goin’ to do with her, Zeb?”

“Them women,” replied Zeb, “pays me and Hen to go down and kidnap her
and her flock and bring ’em up here. I didn’t know she was yore wife,
Swede, or we wouldn’t have lost that papoose.”

Swede can’t stand any more so he claps his hat on his head and gallops
down toward the barn like a locoed cayuse in flytime.

The women take Annie into the house, and all the bunch, with the
exception of Chuck, go back to the bunk-house. Miss Elberfield turns
to Chuck, sort of sarcastic like, and remarks--

“Do all the men in this country act that way when some one tries to do
their wife a good turn?”

“Wife?” said Chuck wonderingly. “Oh, I--I--I think I begins to see. I
reckon this is a mistake. You thought I meant she was th’ boss’ wife.
You spoke of the owner. You see Mister Johnson isn’t th’ owner. Mister
Padden--Henry L. Padden, is th’ owner.”

“That don’t sound like the name,” mused Miss Vanderberg aloud. “It was
more like Mayer or--”

“Padden is th’ name, ma’am. You see it’s this way: Swede is supposed
to be th’ owner, but he ain’t a-tall. Ol’ man Padden got in bad with
th’ law--nothin’ bad, you understand. He shoots two cow-punchers to
begin with, ma’am. That wasn’t nothin’ to speak of, but one day
somebody sees him brandin’ uh cow what don’t exactly belong to him.
That’s why he ain’t in evidence. Uh course he’s gittin’ bolder all
th’ time, and I sort-a look fer him to show up here at th’ ranch
to-morrow. I don’t know what he’ll think when he sees his squaw up
here. But no matter what he does, you women don’t need to be scared.
He ain’t never shot no women--yet.”

“You say he will be here to-morrow!” exclaimed Miss Elberfield.

“Won’t that be lovely, Clarissa. The girls will be on that noon train,
and it will give them a chance to see a real live bad man. I hope he
won’t disappoint us, Mr. Warner.”

“No,” replied Chuck. “I--I--I don’t reckon he will. Who is goin’ after
th’ girls?”

“Messrs. Peck, Crandall and Lopp,” replied Miss Clarissa.

“I shore ought to be included,” groaned Chuck to himself. “If I ain’t
qualified to join th’ Messrs, I don’t know of anybody around this
illahee what is.”

“My Bonnie-e-e lies over th’ ocean. My Bonnie-e-e--” wailed Chuck,
lying on his bunk, with his hands under his head. “Say, Weinie, this
is th’ dog-gonedest funniest thing I ever heard of. Here these females
been here all this time and nobody knows what for.”

“Uh-huh,” agreed Weinie, with his face twisted out of shape, trying to
shave in a splinter of glass on the wall. “Ain’t it too true. Uh course
everybody knows but me and you, Chuck. You told ’em.”

“Well,” drawled Chuck, “would you have ’em live in ignorance?”

“Well, I do know that I’m one uh those selected to meet th’ girls,
whoever they are,” states Weinie, as he tossed the razor into a box
and sighed at his scratched face in the mirror. “They’re comin’ in on
that noon train from th’ East.”

“Some people shore are lucky,” complained Chuck. “Here I’ve got to go
down there with uh hoss to meet th’ ol’ man at eleven. If there’s any
disagreeable work to do I shore gits uh front seat. I wonder what th’
ol’ man will do when he sees all these females, Weinie?”

“And his foreman missin’,” supplemented Weinie. “Swede has hived up
with Pete Gonyer, over on Roarin’ Creek, and Beans threatens to shoot
th’ first woman what pokes her nose in th’ kitchen.”

“Swede got tired of yellin’,” laughed Chuck. “Mama mine! This shore has
been what you’d call an audible week. Has Potlatch Annie gone home yet?”

“Nope. I seen her this mornin’. She’s livin’ in th’ ol’ man’s room and I
see her wearin’ that fancy silk coat he bought that time he got stewed
down at Great Falls. When he sees her there’ll jist about be uh vacancy
in her tribe, Chuck.”

Chuck saddled two horses, and just as he climbed into the saddle he
heard a hail from the house and saw Miss Elberfield waving at him.

“I just wanted to ask you one question,” she said, as Chuck rode up.

“Do you really think your manager loves this Indian girl?”

“Well,” drawled Chuck, “I’d shore hate to say he don’t. You see it’s
this way: Annie, bein’ an Injun, is entitled to uh certain allotment
uh ground in the reservation. If she’s got uh husband he gits in on
it, and every half-breed papoose gits uh share too. _Sabe_? I don’t
_sabe_ love much, but any man can admire good land.”

“Mercenary brute!” she snapped. “Will he be here today?”

“Yes’m, about noon. I’ll probably be with him. You see I’m about th’
only person in th’ county he can fully trust. Everybody trusts me.”

“Perfect faith is a great thing,” she sighed.

“Yes’m. Sometimes I think that I’m to be classed with th’ inscription on
uh dollar, ma’am. Everybody trusts me. So long, ma’am.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Old Hank Padden swung wearily off the east-bound train and shook hands
with Chuck.

“How’s everything, Chuck?” he asked.

“Pretty fair, Hank. Have uh good trip?”

“Very dry. Let’s go over and loosen up some of th’ dust.”

They ambled over to Sam Belden’s saloon and finds Zeb, Mort, Weinie and
Hen playing freeze-out. They shake hands with Padden and line up to the
bar with many a wink at each other.

“Well, here’s luck to him, boys!” laughed Zeb. “And may all his troubles
be li’l ones.”

“Huh!” exclaimed Padden. “They can’t be too small to suit me.”

“Ten pounds is uh good average, I believe,” chuckled Mort.

“Hm-m-m” grunted Padden, looking foolish at Mort. “Ten pounds uh what?
I suppose you fellers ain’t done nothin’ but trail into town and lick
up hooch since I left. Yo’re all talkin’ loco language. Zeb, did you
and Mort go after them strays over on th’ Little Muddy?”

“Nope,” replied Zeb. “We been too busy close-herdin’ th’ house. You know
why.”

“Only I don’t know!” snapped Padden. “Would some of you imitation
cow-punchers tell me what th’ joke is?”

“Haw! Haw! Haw!” roared Zeb. “Ain’t he there, boys. Dog-goned ol’ fox,
eh? Oh, well, Hank, it happens to th’ best of ’em. Let’s all go over to
th’ depot.”

They left the saloon, slapping each other on the backs and laughing,
while Padden stood and stared at Chuck, as if asking for an explanation.

“Chuck, am I running an insane asylum or a cow ranch? Am I crazy or
what’s th’ matter?”

Chuck grinned at Padden and admired the color of the liquor in his glass
before he replied:

“You see, it’s this way. They wasn’t talkin’ about you a-tall. Swede
Johnson is goin’ to marry Potlatch Annie, and he’s done stated that
you are goin’ to be best man at th’ weddin’, and also to be godfather,
whatever that is, to his first born. _Sabe_?”

“Lord A’mighty, Chuck! Annie’s already got uh husband!”

“Not now,” stated Chuck. “She did have, but somebody slips ol’ Runnin’
Wolf uh quart uh wood alcohol.”

“But Swede ain’t goin’ to marry that klooch is he?”

“Shore is, boss. She’s livin’ in th’ ranch house right now--yore house.”

Old Man Padden slammed his glass on the bar and snorted with fury.

“By th’ horns on th’ moon! I’m goin’ right up there and bust this up! In
my house, eh? Dog-gone it, Chuck, that Swede knows I don’t allow no
woman, red, white or black in my house! Here I goes away fer uh week and
th’ first thing he does is to bring uh flea-packin’ squaw up there. I’ll
show that pool-ball-headed cow-trailer where to git off at, Chuck. Come
on and I’ll show yuh some fun.”

“I’d shore admire to,” replied Chuck. “But I can’t go with yuh. My
bronc done picked up uh nail in his hoof and can’t hardly walk. I’ve
got to rustle another hoss before I can git my saddle home.”

“Well, I’ll go on then. Git uh hoss as soon as yuh can, cause when I
gits through with Swede I’ll shore need another foreman. If yuh sees
th’ rest of them crazy punchers, tell ’em to come home sober or git
their time.”

“Hello, Mister Padden!” yells a voice that rasped on their ear-drums,
and there stood Swede Johnson, with a grin all over his face.

Padden stands there and stares at Swede for a full minute. He don’t seem
able to speak, and Swede remarks in the same tremendous voice:

“I hope they don’t buy you out, Mister Padden. If they does I won’t work
for ’em.”

“What th’--what’s th’--matter with you?” howled Padden. “Do you think
I’m deef? Yuh--yuh Swede Johnson, yo’re uh--dog-gone, I jist don’t
seem to be able to express my feelin’s a-tall. You squaw-marryin’,
lop-sided, marble-headed full cousin to uh coyote, you. What do yuh
mean by bringin’ uh broad-faced, flea-packin’, smoke-smellin’
aborigine into my house, eh? Yo’re fired, Swede! I only wants you to
come near my ranch once more, and that will be to git what’s left of
that squaw after I pitches her out on her head! _Sabe_?”

Padden pushed the amazed Swede to one side and gallops over to the
hitch-rack, where his bronc is tied. He vaults into the saddle and
without a backward glance, fogs for the Seven-A.

“Huh!” grunted Swede, as Padden faded into the distance. “I’d almost say
that I’d been fired, Chuck.”

“Uh-huh,” agreed Chuck, sitting down on the saloon porch and rolling a
smoke. “Takin’ it all in all, Swede, uh feller would de-duce that he
ain’t goin’ to put himself out none whatever to induce you to labor on
his property any more.”

“He said I was uh lop-sided, squaw-marryin’--Say, Chuck, I ain’t married
to no squaw! Dog-gone it all, I ain’t!”

“Don’t yell, Swede. Either ease up or hire uh hall. I ain’t disputin’
yuh am I?”

“Somebody told that around, Chuck. By cripes, when I finds th’ hombre
what circulated that story I’ll stake him out to uh sidewinder! Chuck,
did--did you tell ’em I married uh squaw?”

“Me? Say, Swede, there are times--infrequently--when I’ll depart from
th’ naked truth to help uh friend, but far be it from me to marry a
friend into th’ Piegan tribe.” And then to himself: “That’s no lie.
Annie’s uh Flathead.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Hank Padden spared not his mount on his homeward journey. Usually an
easy-going, hard-to-make-mad person, when he did get angry he shut
his eyes to everything but his own personal feelings. He spurred his
horse right up to the porch of the house and slid off. He dropped
his reins and strode up on the porch, and just then the door opened
and out walked Miss Clarissa.

“Did you wish to see some one?” she asked, peering at Padden.

Hank looked at her for a moment and then snorted:

“Chuck was a danged liar! He said it was uh squaw!”

Then he starts for the door. Miss Clarissa steps in front of him and
holds up her hand.

“Would you mind stating your business?” she asked.

“Ma’am,” replied Padden, “since when has th’ owner of this place got in
so bad with his household that he has to stand on his porch and explain
why he wants to go in his own house?”

“Oh! So you’re the owner, are you?” She looks Padden over from boots to
sombrero. “Well, you look just like a man who would marry a poor squaw
for gain. For a few measly acres of land, you marry her. Yes, you look
like you would do it. I pity the poor girl.”

“You do, eh!” snorted Padden. “I never posed as uh he-beauty, ma’am, but
I shore resents marryin’ squaws. Jist about who are yuh and what are yuh
doin’ here?”

“I suppose you don’t know who I am.”

“Ma’am, I’m no good at puzzles. I’m a-listenin’.”

“I am,” she replied, “the woman who wrote those letters. I also received
replies from you. Your memory must be very short.”

Padden jabbed his spur into his ankle and scowled at Miss Clarissa.

“I’m neither asleep or drunk, so I must be crazy,” he mumbled to
himself.

“I suppose you’ll say next that this Indian girl isn’t your wife.”

“My--what? Wife?” roared Padden. “Did you say wife?”

“Don’t you dare to deny it!” she snapped, shaking her finger in Padden’s
face. “I can forgive you for killing those two cowboys, and for stealing
cattle, but a man who deliberately marries a poor Indian girl for what
property she can bring him, makes her live in a teepee, while he lives
in ease and comfort, and then denies it--well, he’s outside the pale of
forgiveness.”

“Go on and strike me!” she continued, as Padden grunted and started
toward her. “I wouldn’t put it one bit past you.”

“Lord love yuh, woman!” wailed Padden. “I wouldn’t strike yuh--besides
it’s agin’ th’ law in this state to hit uh person which had glasses on.
Somebody’s shore gone loco, ma’am. I’d shore admire to----”

“Here comes the girls!” exclaimed Miss Clarissa, pointing down the road.

Padden turns and looks at the wagon-load of petticoats driving into the
front yard, and then sits down weakly on the steps.

“Sufferin’ coyotes!” he wailed. “They’re comin’ in bunches!”

In the next few minutes there is a lot of female talk spilled around the
place. Everyone tries to talk at once, and they swamps Miss Clarissa
with kisses. As Zeb said afterward; “There was more kisses spilt right
there in uh minute than ever was smacked in Yaller Rock County since the
Custer fight.”

“Now, girls,” said Miss Clarissa, after the kissing bee was over, or
had rather died down to skirmish fire, “come right in the house. We
will probably have to get the men to build us some more beds, but
we’ll get along nicely.”

The girls danced up the steps and into the house, right past Padden who
is sitting there like a foundered calf, looking at the sky. Weinie, Hen
and Zeb are still sitting in the wagon, and looking foolishly at Padden,
who seems to come out of his daze after a while and notice things. He
opens his mouth several times and then points at the stable.

“Put up th’ team,” was all he seemed able to say.

“Gosh, th’ ol’ man is still there on th’ steps!” chuckled Hen, as the
trio went back to the bunk-house.

“Uh-huh,” agreed Zeb. “He ain’t got no other place to go. We ain’t got
no room in here for him--and th’ stable’s full.”

“I wonder where Chuck is?” mumbled Weinie through the lather on his
face. “Drop that necktie Zeb! Dog-gone, uh feller can’t own nothin’
around this place without some jasper actin’ free with it. I buys
that tie uh purpose fer this occasion. Chuck’s got uh dandy green one
in his war-sack--help yourself.”

“Over th’ unconscious form of old man Warner’s son yuh might,” stated
Chuck from the doorway.

“Hello, Chawles!” laughed Zeb, sluicing his face from the wash-basin.

“Did yuh see th’ girls? Chuck’s uh wise ol’ owl, Hen. He opined he’d
have first pick from this female herd, but Swede gave th’ secret away.
Did yuh notice th’ li’l blond, Hen. Th’ one what sat beside me all th’
way up. Some han’some li’l filly, eh? Believe me, Hennie, ol’ boy, li’l
Zebbie is shore goin’ to mark one uh them matrimonial holdovers off th’
books.”

Chuck sat down on the bunk and picked up an old magazine.

“Ain’t yuh goin’ to harvest th’ hair off yore face, Chuck?” asked
Weinie. “Aw, be uh sport. Jist because yuh didn’t git first pick
ain’t no reason fer uh peeve. Hereafter don’t tell Swede anything,
old-timer.”

Chuck shook his head and sprawled on the bunk, as the rest of the bunch
trailed off toward the house. He rolled a cigaret and pondered deeply.

“Matrimonial bureau,” he grinned to himself. “Well, dog-gone it, mebby
it wasn’t a fabrication after all.”

He thought of the new green tie and pink shirt in the war-sack, and
reached for the razor.

“You never can tell which way uh dill pickle might squirt,” he
soliloquized, as he reached for the sack. “I might as well put on that
blue vest too.”

He took his belongings out of the vest he was wearing and, as an
afterthought, ran his hand into the inside pocket. He pulled out a
crumpled envelope and turned it over in his hands. He studied it for
a few minutes, with a frown of wonderment on his face, and suddenly
broke into a smile. He slipped his finger under one corner of the
flap and opened it.

For fully five minutes he sat on the bunk and read and reread the
contents of that envelope. Finally he slipped it back into the pocket
and sat down on Zeb’s bunk, and incidentally on top of Zeb’s guitar.
He picked up the instrument and picked softly on the strings.

“Bring ba-a-ack, bring ba-a-ack, oh, bring----”

“Hey, Chuck! Oh, Chuck!” yelled Zeb’s voice from the house. “Come up
here, th’ ol’ man wants yuh, Chuck.”

Chuck walked slowly up the slope toward the house, which seemed
strangely silent for a house so full of the gentle sex, and opened the
door. Everybody was in the front room, and the silence was pregnant with
disaster. The women were all standing around Potlatch Annie on one side,
and on the other stood Padden, all alone, and off to one side--sort of
neutral--stood Zeb, Hen and Weinie.

“Did you not tell me that this Indian girl was the wife of your
manager?” asked Miss Clarissa.

“He surely did,” stated Miss Genevieve, before Chuck had a chance to
speak. “I heard him.”

Chuck cleared his throat and fidgets with his hat.

“I’ll tell yuh how it was if you’ll give me uh chance. Yuh see----”

A little scream from one of the girls nearest the door causes every
one to turn, and there stood the tallest, meanest looking Indian in
the state of Montana--Chief Running Wolf. He’s painted up like a
circus bill-board and carrying a heavy carbine. The top half of his
face is stained a bright yellow, the lower half is vermilion, and
two bands of green are painted across his forehead and one runs the
full length of his hooked nose. He exuded an aroma of lemon extract
and bay rum.

“Hooh!” he grunted like a Mogul freight engine on a grade, as he shifted
the rifle to a handy position and looked over the assemblage. He swung
the rifle, with both hands, across his hip and scowled at Padden.

“Yo’ stealum klooch?” he grunted.

“Not me, chief,” denied Padden. “You see--yo’re supposed to be dead!”

“Plenty lie no good! Johnson say yo’ stealum. Mebby so Tenas Charley
(Chuck) help stealum. Lie no good! Hooh!”

He stood as straight as a young lodge-pole and shook the feathers in his
greasy hair.

The women were all scared stiff, but they didn’t have anything on Hank
Padden. Hank knew that Running Wolf was drunk, because he had got a
whiff of the flavoring extract, and he knew what an Indian was capable
of in that condition. All the time the chief is making his war talk,
Padden is getting his fingers under the window and lifting it up. Just
then the chief sees Potlatch Annie, and he breaks into a smile.

“Huh!” he pats himself on the chest and nods his head.

“All he needs is Watson and th’ needle to be uh Sherlock,” murmurs Chuck
to himself.

“_Mesika klatawa klaghanie!_” howls the chief at Annie, and points at
the door.

She lost no time in getting outside. He turns to Padden and takes one
step forward.

“_Kahpho kopo talapus!_” he hisses at Padden, the same in English
meaning “Brother to a coyote!” and slaps that rifle barrel into the
palm of his hand.

“_Bang!_”

Either he had been doing all his talking with a cocked rifle in his
hands, or struck the hammer in some way as he swung the barrel down,
because the rifle went off and blew a pane of glass out of the window
behind Padden and filled the room full of smoke.

Rats never left a sinking ship with such dispatch as the present company
left the Seven-A ranch house. Padden took what was left of the window
and carried it proudly around his neck as he galloped wildly down past
the corral and off across the flat toward the Little Muddy. He knew that
Running Wolf was a crack shot.

A few of the women knew that the house had doors, but the majority
took it for granted that the owner knew the best exit and followed him
through the window. The trio of wife-hunters clawed their way out of
the front door and lit running right away from there.

Running Wolf, in the exuberance of his flavoring jag and war-paint,
emptied his rifle at everything in sight and then reached for more
ammunition. His reaching was in vain, for the reason that at the
moment his rifle was empty, Chuck slid out from under the horsehair
sofa and attacked him from the rear.

“Wah!” yells the chief, as Chuck hustles him to the door, by the slack
of his pants and the short hair in the back of his neck.

“_Spat!_” Chuck’s heavy riding boot caught the chief in the most
convenient part of his anatomy, and the chief lit on his painted face
in the gravel.

“Wah!” he snorted, sitting up and scowling at Chuck. “He-e-eap cultus!”

“Shore was!” snapped Chuck, rubbing his ankle. “_Klatawa_, yuh ornery
acid swillin’ aborigine!”

The chief got up and waddled off down the trail. He needed a drink to
drown the insult.

“That shore was uh welcome interruption,” chuckled Chuck. “In about
another second I’d have had to tell uh lie.”

He walked back into the house, but there was no one in sight. Not even
a ribbon was left to show that a woman had ever invaded the precincts
of the house. As Chuck walked back to the front door, he ran right up
against the muzzle of a rifle, and Hank Padden’s angry face was behind
it.

“Now, dog-gone yo’re hide, Chuck, yo’re a-goin’ to tell th’ truth!”

“Drop that gun, Hank!” roared a voice behind them, and there stood
Magpie Simpkins, the sheriff, covering Padden’s back with a long, blue
Colt of large caliber.

“That’s right, Hank, drop it! What yuh tryin’ to do around here--kill
off all yo’re help? Slip these on him, Chuck.”

He handed Chuck a pair of handcuffs which Chuck accepted mechanically
and looked foolishly at the sheriff.

“What--what in ---- yuh tryin’ to pull off, Magpie?” yelped Padden.
“Stickin’ uh gun in my back and wantin’ me to wear hardware on my
wrists! I ain’t done----”

“Anything yuh say can be used agin’ yuh in court,” stated Magpie, as he
snapped the cuffs on Padden’s wrists. “Jist better keep yore mouth shut
and come peaceful like, Padden.”

Padden flopped down in a convenient chair and stared first at his
wrists and then at Magpie. The women had evidently overcome their fears
and crowded into the house and stared at the sheriff and his prisoner.
Padden scowled at Magpie for a few minutes, amid a deep silence and
then--

“You long, cadaverous kin to uh coyote, what do yuh mean? Used agin’ me
in court? Me? Jist about what fer?”

“Hank,” replied Magpie, looking at the women in open-mouthed wonderment,
“I’ve got uh warrant for yore arrest on uh charge uh murder.”

“Huh--I--uh--say, who did I murder?”

“Th’ paper don’t say, Hank. It was swore out by uh woman who was in
Curlew today. She got th’ warrant from Judge Wilson, and he hands it to
me when I’m goin’ through there today. It don’t say who yuh murdered,
but it does say that yuh done got two punchers.”

“That woman, whoever she is, is uh danged liar!” roared Hank.

“Don’t you call me a liar!” Miss Genevieve Elberfield strode out from
the bunch of women and faced Hank with a flushed face. “I swore out
that warrant. You can’t escape the consequence of your acts. If men
won’t clean up the West, the women will have to. We didn’t care to
have our girls come out here while a creature of your caliber was at
large, but we didn’t find out about you until it was too late, so Miss
Vanderberg and I decided that we would do the next best thing and put
you behind the prison bars. Oh, you don’t need to look surprised,
Mister Man. We were told all about you by a man whom everybody trusts.
He wouldn’t lie.”

“Hello, folks!” yelled a voice from the doorway, and Johnny Myers,
foreman of the Triangle outfit, removed his hat with a flourish when
he saw the ladies. “Who’s sick?”

“Who’s sick?” echoed Hank. “By th’ horns on th’ moon, I am, Myers!
Better git on yore bronc and hit fer th’ ridges, ’cause this wickiup
is shore sufferin’ from aggravated hallucinations.”

“Well,” remarked Myers, “it don’t look natural, that’s uh fact. I was
cuttin’ across th’ hills down by Roarin’ Creek uh while ago when I
meets Chuck Warner on uh roan hoss and he shore was goin’ toward town
some fast. He pulls up long enough to tell me that he’s on his way to
git uh doctor, and then he fades out of sight. That’s shore some
travelin’ bronc he’s ridin’.”

The sheriff took two long strides and looked out of the door.

“Uh-huh,” he grunted. “That roan shore can run. Cost me uh hundred.”

“I beg your pardon,” said Miss Clarissa, “but did you--did I understand
that your name is Myers?”

“Yes’m, that’s my name. Johnny Myers, of th’ Triangle.”

“I’m Miss Clarissa Vanderberg, of the Gladstone School for Girls.”

“Gosh!” exclaimed Johnny. “Why, I’ve been lookin’ fer uh letter from you
fer two weeks. I figgered that yore cattle-ranch outing didn’t pan out
th’ way yuh expected. Did--did Chuck tell yuh this was th’ place?”

“No, no, I don’t believe he did.”

“Well, ma’am,” grunted Padden, “that’s one thing in his favor. It’s
probably th’ first time that he ever had uh chance to lie and didn’t.”

“Ma’am,” whispered Padden, edging over close to Miss Clarissa, “did you
ever run uh matrimonial bureau?”

“Why, the very idea! Of course not! Why do you ask that?”

“Oh--I--huh--jist asked, ma’am. No harm done.”

“Well, I suppose we’d better move over to Mr. Myers’s farm at once, or
go back East again,” stated Miss Vanderberg.

“Amen,” sighed Padden. “There’s two things I can’t stand. One is uh
woman around th’ ranch, and th’ other is--ridin’ th’ sheriff’s hoss
after uh doctor.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

“My Bonnie-e-e-e lies over th’ ocean. My Bonnie-e-e-e lies----” sang
Chuck Warner in a plaintive minor key, which was completely drowned
out by the clatter of the cattle car under him, as it crossed the
Curlew switch and headed west. “Mama mine! When yuh come to think of
it, Bonnie ain’t got nothin’ on li’l Chuck. I reckon me and her goes
fifty-fifty. But I does all my lyin’ on this side of th’ sea.”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the April, 1917 issue of
Adventure magazine.]



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FIFTY-FIFTY WITH BONNIE ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG™ LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg™ License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 41 Watchung Plaza #516,
Montclair NJ 07042, USA, +1 (862) 621-9288. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


